contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/README.md, before:

# Proposing Multisig Transactions via the Safe SDK

The [Safe SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/blob/main/guides/integrating-the-safe-core-sdk.md) is being
used to propose transactions that only the Safe multisig admin wallet can perform. The proposer of these transactions is
also part of the multisig wallet but is used to orchestrate the process. E.g. If you require 3 of 5 trusted signers to
sign a transaction, then the multisig wallet should require 4 of 5 signers where the 4th signer is the orchestrator
wallet.

## Pre-requisites

- You have node installed
- Run `npm install` to install dependencies

## Set Permissioned Prover

To enable the permissioned prover on the light client contract, ensure that the following environment variables are set
in the `.env.contracts` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `PERMISSIONED_PROVER_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

> **_NOTE:_** the signer for this transaction must be one of the signers in the **Safe Multisig Wallet**, whether the
> ledger hardware wallet or the address owned by `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY`

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyProverModeProposal.ts setProver
```

Open the URL shown in the console to sign the transaction in the Safe UI.

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI e.g.
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the permissioned prover address on etherscan.

## Disable Permissioned Prover

To disable the permissioned prover on the light client contract, ensure that the following environment variables are set
in the `.env.contracts` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyProverModeProposal.ts disableProver
```

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the permissioned prover address. It will be equal to the 0 ETH address (address(0)).

## Set the state history retention period

To enable the state history retention period on the light client contract, ensure that the following environment
variables are set in the `.env` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `STATE_HISTORY_RETENTION_PERIOD`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyStateHistoryRetentionPeriod.ts
```

Open the URL shown in the console to sign the transaction in the Safe UI.

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI e.g.
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the state history retention period on etherscan.

## Demonstrating the setPermissionedProver workflow

1. Follow the steps in the deployment script [readme](../../contracts/script/README.md) to set up a Multisig Wallet and
   deploy the Light Client contract
2. Set the environment variables mentioned in the section, [Set Permissioned Prover](#set-permissioned-prover)
3. Run the `ts-node` command as mentioned in the section, [Set Permissioned Prover](#set-permissioned-prover)

## Demonstrating the disablePermissionedProver workflow

1. Follow the steps in the deployment script [readme](../../contracts/script/README.md) to set up a Multisig Wallet and
   deploy the Light Client contract
2. Set the environment variables mentioned in the section, [Disable Permissioned Prover](#disable-permissioned-prover)
3. Run the `ts-node` command as mentioned in the section, [Disable Permissioned Prover](#disable-permissioned-prover)

## Approving Stake Amount to From Multisig to StakeTable

1. Set the following environment variables in `.env.contracts`

- RPC_URL
- SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS
- TOKEN_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS
- STAKE_TABLE_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS

2. Run the script to propose the transaction the safe multisig address

```bash
source .env.contracts &&
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/approveStake.ts $STAKE_AMOUNT_IN_ETHER
```

3. Follow the URL in the terminal output to the multisig wallet to sign the proposal and eventually execute it

## Staking to Validator from Multisig to StakeTable

1. Set the following environment variables in `.env.contracts`

- RPC_URL
- SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS
- TOKEN_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS
- STAKE_TABLE_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS

2. Run the script to propose the transaction the safe multisig address

```bash
source .env.contracts &&
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/delegateStake.ts $VALIDATOR_ADDRESS $STAKE_AMOUNT_IN_ETHER
```

3. Follow the URL in the terminal output to the multisig wallet to sign the proposal and eventually execute it

## Testing

### Testing Safe Multisig Wallets

The Safe Transaction Service requires a live network available for testing and the current service only supports mainnet
and testnets such as Sepolia. The Safe Wallet UI only works with public networks that they support and to customize it
for a private EVM network, read their [docs](https://help.safe.global/en/articles/40795-supported-networks) for more
info. It's non-trivial to set up Safe for private networks and therefore time has not been allocated to do so at this
stage.

### Testing the utils

Testing safeSDK/utils.ts

```bash
yarn jest contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/tests/utils.test.ts
```

OR

```bash
yarn jest
```

Commit message:

added function to modify the epoch start block and added scripts to u… (#3097)
* added function to modify the epoch start block and added scripts to upgrade the contract to include that - so far only the flow for upgrading LightclientArbitrumV2 patch as been tested

* added instructions for upgrading lcv2 to include updateEpochStartBlocks method and added instructions to upgrade via multisig (tested with dummy lc contract)

* udpate firstEpoch when epochStartBlock is updated

* removed unused code

contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/README.md, after:

# Proposing Multisig Transactions via the Safe SDK

The [Safe SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/blob/main/guides/integrating-the-safe-core-sdk.md) is being
used to propose transactions that only the Safe multisig admin wallet can perform. The proposer of these transactions is
also part of the multisig wallet but is used to orchestrate the process. E.g. If you require 3 of 5 trusted signers to
sign a transaction, then the multisig wallet should require 4 of 5 signers where the 4th signer is the orchestrator
wallet.

## Pre-requisites

- You have node installed
- Run `npm install` to install dependencies

## Set Permissioned Prover

To enable the permissioned prover on the light client contract, ensure that the following environment variables are set
in the `.env.contracts` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `PERMISSIONED_PROVER_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

> **_NOTE:_** the signer for this transaction must be one of the signers in the **Safe Multisig Wallet**, whether the
> ledger hardware wallet or the address owned by `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY`

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyProverModeProposal.ts setProver
```

Open the URL shown in the console to sign the transaction in the Safe UI.

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI e.g.
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the permissioned prover address on etherscan.

## Disable Permissioned Prover

To disable the permissioned prover on the light client contract, ensure that the following environment variables are set
in the `.env.contracts` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyProverModeProposal.ts disableProver
```

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the permissioned prover address. It will be equal to the 0 ETH address (address(0)).

## Set the state history retention period

To enable the state history retention period on the light client contract, ensure that the following environment
variables are set in the `.env` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `STATE_HISTORY_RETENTION_PERIOD`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyStateHistoryRetentionPeriod.ts
```

Open the URL shown in the console to sign the transaction in the Safe UI.

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI e.g.
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the state history retention period on etherscan.

## Set the epoch start block

To update the epoch start block in the light client v2 contract, ensure that the following environment variables are set
in the `.env` file:

- `RPC_URL`
- `SAFE_ORCHESTRATOR_PRIVATE_KEY` (if not using a hardware wallet)
- `SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`
- `LIGHT_CLIENT_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS`
- `EPOCH_START_BLOCK`
- `USE_HARDWARE_WALLET` (if yes, put "true", otherwise "false")

Assuming you're in the root folder, run the following command:

```bash
source .env.contracts && \
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/modifyEpochStartBlock.ts
```

Open the URL shown in the console to sign the transaction in the Safe UI.

Once successful, all signers will see a transaction request on the SAFE UI e.g.
`https://app.safe.global/transactions/queue?safe=$SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS`

Once the transaction has been signed by all signers and executed by one, you should be able to go to the light client
proxy and read the state history retention period on etherscan.

## Demonstrating the setPermissionedProver workflow

1. Follow the steps in the deployment script [readme](../../contracts/script/README.md) to set up a Multisig Wallet and
   deploy the Light Client contract
2. Set the environment variables mentioned in the section, [Set Permissioned Prover](#set-permissioned-prover)
3. Run the `ts-node` command as mentioned in the section, [Set Permissioned Prover](#set-permissioned-prover)

## Demonstrating the disablePermissionedProver workflow

1. Follow the steps in the deployment script [readme](../../contracts/script/README.md) to set up a Multisig Wallet and
   deploy the Light Client contract
2. Set the environment variables mentioned in the section, [Disable Permissioned Prover](#disable-permissioned-prover)
3. Run the `ts-node` command as mentioned in the section, [Disable Permissioned Prover](#disable-permissioned-prover)

## Approving Stake Amount to From Multisig to StakeTable

1. Set the following environment variables in `.env.contracts`

- RPC_URL
- SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS
- TOKEN_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS
- STAKE_TABLE_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS

2. Run the script to propose the transaction the safe multisig address

```bash
source .env.contracts &&
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/approveStake.ts $STAKE_AMOUNT_IN_ETHER
```

3. Follow the URL in the terminal output to the multisig wallet to sign the proposal and eventually execute it

## Staking to Validator from Multisig to StakeTable

1. Set the following environment variables in `.env.contracts`

- RPC_URL
- SAFE_MULTISIG_ADDRESS
- TOKEN_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS
- STAKE_TABLE_CONTRACT_PROXY_ADDRESS

2. Run the script to propose the transaction the safe multisig address

```bash
source .env.contracts &&
ts-node contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/safeSDK/delegateStake.ts $VALIDATOR_ADDRESS $STAKE_AMOUNT_IN_ETHER
```

3. Follow the URL in the terminal output to the multisig wallet to sign the proposal and eventually execute it

## Testing

### Testing Safe Multisig Wallets

The Safe Transaction Service requires a live network available for testing and the current service only supports mainnet
and testnets such as Sepolia. The Safe Wallet UI only works with public networks that they support and to customize it
for a private EVM network, read their [docs](https://help.safe.global/en/articles/40795-supported-networks) for more
info. It's non-trivial to set up Safe for private networks and therefore time has not been allocated to do so at this
stage.

### Testing the utils

Testing safeSDK/utils.ts

```bash
yarn jest contracts/script/multisigTransactionProposals/tests/utils.test.ts
```

OR

```bash
yarn jest
```
